Concord v1

Local-First Cognitive Platform for Thought Synthesis, Debate, and Evolution

Concord is a local-first cognitive platform that allows users to capture ideas as structured units (DTUs), explore them through simulations, debates, and personas, and watch their knowledge space grow over time — privately, ethically, and without data extraction.

Concord is not an LLM, not a chatbot, and not a productivity app.
It is a thinking platform that can optionally integrate LLMs as tools.

⸻

✨ Core Concepts

DTUs (Discrete Thought Units)

DTUs are atomic units of thought:
	•	Ideas
	•	Hypotheses
	•	Notes
	•	Research fragments
	•	Syntheses

DTUs can:
	•	Reference other DTUs
	•	Evolve over time
	•	Be debated, simulated, or synthesized
	•	Remain local-only or optionally shared

⸻

Local-First by Design
	•	Your ideas stay on your machine
	•	No required accounts
	•	No telemetry
	•	No data mining
	•	Optional LLM usage via your own API keys

Concord works offline, and expands when connected. .env provided just use your apikey.

⸻

🧠 What Concord Does (v1)

✔ Thought Capture
	•	Manual DTU creation
	•	Forge mode for structured idea generation
	•	Tagging, lineage tracking, and synthesis

✔ Cognitive Expansion
	•	Council debates between personas
	•	Swarm analysis (multiple reasoning lenses)
	•	What-if simulations
	•	Evolution engine that refines DTUs over time

✔ Background Intelligence
	•	Heartbeat system (periodic cognitive cycles)
	•	Dream mode (idea resurfacing)
	•	Auto-generation of new DTUs
	•	Manual and automated ingest
	•	Safe autocrawl (whitelisted sources only)

✔ Personas
	•	Ethicist
	•	Engineer
	•	Historian
	•	Economist

Personas:
	•	Debate ideas
	•	Speak with distinct reasoning styles
	•	Provide synthesis instead of answers

⸻

🧩 Architecture Overview

Backend
	•	Node.js (Express)
	•	Local JSON + SQLite persistence
	•	Job governor for background processes
	•	Modular OS layers (Reality, Sensemaking, Evolution, Council, Swarm, etc.)

Frontend
	•	React (Vite)
	•	Local-first UI
	•	Persona interaction
	•	Builder / Governor mode
	•	No external analytics

⸻

🔌 LLM Integration (Optional)

Concord supports optional LLM usage:
	•	Bring your own API key
	•	LLMs act as tools, not authorities
	•	DTUs remain the primary knowledge substrate

If no key is provided, Concord still functions fully.

⸻

🛡 Ethics & Privacy

Concord is built around:
	•	Non-extractive design
	•	User ownership of ideas
	•	No behavioral tracking
	•	No hidden training usage
	•	Clear separation between local and global knowledge

Global sharing is opt-in and governed.

⸻

🚀 Getting Started

Requirements
	•	Node.js v18+
	•	npm

Install
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/concord.git
cd concord
npm install
# backend
cd server
npm start

# frontend
cd ..
npm run dev
http://localhost:5173
🧪 Status

Concord v1 is a foundational release.

It proves:
	•	The architecture
	•	The cognitive model
	•	The local-first workflow
	•	Autonomous idea evolution

v2+ will expand:
	•	Global DTU markets
	•	Advanced governance
	•	Dimensional OS layers
	•	Research institute tooling (CRI)

⸻

📌 Philosophy

Concord is not here to think for you.
It exists to help you think better, longer, and deeper — without losing ownership of your mind.

⸻

📄 License

Open for research and experimentation.
Commercial terms to be finalized in future releases.
